TO HER 


Hand in hand we come 
Christopher Rohin and I 
To lay this hook in your lap. 

Say you re surprised? 

Say you like it? 

Say its just what you wanted? 
Because its yours - 
Because we love you. 




INTRODUCTION 

If you happen to have read another book about 
Christopher Robin, you may remember that he once had 
a swan (or the swan had Christopher Robin, I don't 
know which), and that he used to call this swan Pooh. 
That was a long time ago, and when we said good-bye, 
we took the name with us, as we didn't think the swan 
would want it any more. Well, when Edward Bear said 
that he would like an exciting name all to himself, 
Christopher Robin said at once, without stopping to 
think, that he was Winnie-the-Pooh. And he was. So, as 
I have explained the Pooh part, I will now explain the 
rest of it. 

You can't be in London for long without going to the 
Zoo. There are some people who begin the Zoo at the 
beginning, called WAYIN, and walk as quickly as they 
can past every cage until they get to the one called 
WAYOUT, but the nicest people go straight to the 
animal they love the most, and stay there. So when 
Christopher Robin goes to the Zoo, he goes to where the 
Polar Bears are, and he whispers something to the third 


keeper from the left, and doors are unlocked, and we 
wander through dark passages and up steep stairs, until 
at last we come to the special cage, and the cage is 
opened, and out trots something brown and furry, and 
with a happy cry of 'Oh, Bear!' Christopher Robin rushes 
into its arms. Now this bears name is Winnie, which 
shows what a good name for bears it is, but the funny 
thing is that we can’t remember whether Winnie is 
called after Pooh, or Pooh after Winnie. We did know 
once, but we have forgotten .... 

I had written as far as this when Piglet looked up and 
said in his squeaky voice, 'What about Me7 'My dear 
Piglet,’ I said, 'the whole book is about you.’ 'So it is about 
Pooh,’ he squeaked. You see what it is. He is jealous 
because he thinks Pooh is having a Grand Introduction all 
to himself. Pooh is the favourite, of course, there’s no 
denying it, but Piglet comes in for a good many things 
which Pooh misses; because you can’t take Pooh to school 
without everybody knowing it, but Piglet is so small that 
he slips into a pocket, where it is very comforting to feel 
him when you are not quite sure whether twice seven is 
twelve or twenty- two. Sometimes he slips out and has a 
good look in the ink-pot, and in this way he has got more 
education than Pooh, but Pooh doesn’t mind. Some have 
brains, and some haven’t, he says, and there it is. 

And now, all the others are saying, 'What about Us?’ 
So perhaps the best thing to do is to stop writing 
Introductions and get on with the book. 


A.A.M. 



CONTENTS 


CHAPTER One in which we are introduced to 'page 1 

Winnie-the-Pooh and some Bees, and the stories begin 

CHAPTER Two in which Pooh goes visiting 19 

and gets into a tight place 

CHAPTER Three in which Pooh and Piglet go hunting 30 

and nearly catch a Woozle 

Chapter Four in which Eeyore loses a tail 39 

and Pooh finds one 

CHAPTER Five in which Piglet meets a Heffalump 51 

CHAPTER Six in which Eeyore has a birthday 65 

and gets two presents 

CHAPTER Seven in which Kanga and Baby Roo 81 

come to the Forest, and Piglet has a bath 

CHAPTER EIGHT in which Christopher Robin 99 

leads an expotition to the North Pole 

Chapter Nine in which Piglet is entirely 117 

surrounded by water 

CHAPTER Ten in which Christopher Robin 133 

gives a Pooh Party, and we say good-bye 



Alice- Po* 

.... pt K NICK. 


\s A n py pjr 

% IVH£R£ ROQ : PC AYS 


^4^ 


RfS B B i r^' 
HouS S 


y H Bears 
house 


7 > /<;lets 
House . 


W//E/?E THE 
WOOZ.C.E WAsPA/r 


DMWf* 'BY /**& 




tic, 

STONES 
A NX> 

*■ Aox 


MY 

House 


W, OWLS 

W^House 
.. . ) 


too A KBn 
WOOJO 


A /VP A1% SMS' PA RD //SC PJ> 




CHAPTER ONE 

in which we are introduced to 
Winnie-the-Pooh and some Bees, 
and the stories begin 


Here is Edward Bear, coming downstairs now, bump, 
bump, bump, on the back of his head, behind 
Christopher Robin. It is, as far as he knows, the only 
way of coming downstairs, but sometimes he feels that 
there really is another way, if only he could stop bumping 
for a moment and think of it. And then he feels that 
perhaps there isn’t. Anyhow, here he is at the bottom, 
and ready to be introduced to you. Winnie-the-Pooh. 

When I first heard his name, I said, just as you are 
going to say, 'But I thought he was a boy?’ 

'So did 1/ said Christopher Robin. 

'Then you can’t call him Winnie?’ 

'I don’t.’ 


l 


WINNIE -THE -POOH 


'But you said - 

'He’s Winnie-ther-Pooh. Don’t you know what " ther ” 
means?’ 

'Ah, yes, now I do,’ I said quickly; and I hope you do 
too, because it is all the explanation you are going to get. 

Sometimes Winnie-the-Pooh likes a game of some 
sort when he comes downstairs, and sometimes he likes 
to sit quietly in front of the fire and listen to a story 
This evening — 

'What about a story?’ said Christopher Robin. 

' What about a story?’ I said. 

'Could you very sweetly tell Winnie-the-Pooh one?’ 

'I suppose I could,’ I said. 'What sort of stories does 
he like?’ 

'About himself. Because he’s that sort of Bear.’ 

'Oh, I see.’ 

'So could you very sweetly?’ 

'I’ll try,’ I said. So I tried. 

Once upon a time, a very long time ago now, about last 
Friday, Winnie-the-Pooh lived in a forest all by himself 
under the name of Sanders. 

('What does " under the name” mean?’ ashed Christopher 
Rohin. 

1 It means he had the name over the door in gold letters 
and lived under it. ’ 

' Winnie-the-Pooh wasn’t quite sure / said Christopher 
Rohin. 

1 Now I am/ said a growly voice. 

' Then I will go on/ said I.) 


2 


WE ARE INTRODUCED 



One day when he was out walking, he came to an 
open place in the middle of the forest, and in the middle 
of this place was a large oak-tree, and, from the top of 
the tree, there came a loud buzzing-noise. 

Winnie-the-Pooh sat down at the foot of the tree, put 
his head between his paws, and began to think. 

First of all he said to himself: That buzzing-noise 

means something. You don't get a buzzing-noise like 
that, just buzzing and buzzing, without its meaning 
something. If there's a buzzing-noise, somebody's 


3 


WINNIE -THE -POOH 




making a buzzing-noise, and the only reason for making 
a buzzing-noise that I know of is because you're a bee. 

Then he thought another long time, and said: 'And 
the only reason for being a bee that I know of is making 
honey.' 

And then he got up, and said: 'And the only reason for 
making honey is so as I can eat it.' So he began to climb 
the tree. 

He climbed and he climbed and he climbed, and as 
he climbed he sang a little song to himself. 



4 


WE ARE INTRODUCED 



It went like this: 


Isn’t it funny 
How a bear likes honey? 

Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! 

I wonder why he does? 


5 


WINNIE -THE -POOH 


Then he climbed a little further... and a little further... 
and then just a little further. By that time he had 
thought of another song. 

It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees, 
They d build their nests at the bottom of trees. 

And that being so (if the Bees were Bears), 

We shouldn’t have to climb up all these stairs. 

He was getting rather tired by this time, so that is why 
he sang a Complaining Song. He was nearly there now, 
and if he just stood on that branch. . . 

Crack ! 

‘Oh, help!' said Pooh, as he dropped ten feet to the 
branch below him. 



6 


WE ARE INTRODUCED 


If only I hadn’t — he said, as he bounced twenty feet 
on to the next branch. 

'You see, what I meant to do,’ he explained, as he 
turned head-over-heels, and crashed on to another 
branch thirty feet below, 'what I meant to do — ’ 

'Of course, it was rather - he admitted, as he 
slithered very quickly through the next six branches. 

'It all comes, I suppose,’ he decided, as he said good- 
bye to the last branch, spun round three times, and flew 
gracefully into a gorse-bush, 'it all comes of liking honey 
so much. Oh, help!’ 



He crawled out of the gorse-bush, brushed the 
prickles from his nose, and began to think again. And 
the first person he thought of was Christopher Robin. 

(' Was that me?’ said Christopher Robin in an awed 
voice , hardly daring to believe it. 

‘That was you. ’ 

Christopher Robin said nothing , but his eyes got larger 
and larger ; and his face got pinker and pinker. ) 


7 


WINNIE -THE -POOH 




So Winnie-the-Pooh went round to his friend 
Christopher Robin, who lived behind a green door in 
another part of the Forest. 

'Good morning, Christopher Robin/ he said. 

'Good morning, Winnie-tfeer-Pooh/ said you. 





WE ARE INTRODUCED 




WINNIE -THE -POOH 


'I wonder if you’ve got such a thing as a balloon about 
you?’ 

'A balloon?’ 

'Yes, I just said to myself coming along: “I wonder if 
Christopher Robin has such a thing as a balloon about 
him?” I just said it to myself, thinking of balloons, and 
wondering.’ 

'What do you want a balloon for?’ you said. 

Winnie-the-Pooh looked round to see that nobody 
was listening, put his paw to his mouth, and said in a 
deep whisper: ' Honey !’ 

'But you don’t get honey with balloons!’ 

7 do,’ said Pooh. 

Well, it just happened that you had been to a party 
the day before at the house of your friend Piglet, and 
you had balloons at the party. You had had a big green 
balloon; and one of Rabbit’s relations had had a big blue 
one, and had left it behind, being really too young to go 
to a party at all; and so you had brought the green one 
and the blue one home with you. 

'Which one would you like?’ you asked Pooh. 



10 
